On or around Saint Patrick’s Day, an Irish friend of ours remarked “that it was more fun playing at being Irish than actually being Irish.” It appears that John Concannon of Concannon vineyards, although three generations removed from his Irish antecedents, takes being Irish very seriously. He takes it so seriously that he has contracted the Cooley Distillery in his ancestral homeland of Ireland, to make and bottle for him a true breath of the old sod, Irish Whiskey.
If you know of John Concannon and his wines, then you know that they are always crafted to the highest standards. We had the opportunity to sample his Irish whisky and can attest to the fact that “Concannon rides again.”

Concannon Irish Whiskey ($24.99). This fine Irish whiskey has been specially crafted, and produced to honor the most famous of all Irish exports, its whiskey; if you don’t include the Irish who emigrated to this country. This delightful whiskey has been aged for 4 years in American oak bourbon barrels and finished in barrels formerly used to age Concannon’s petite sirah wines. This aging imparts to the whiskey an inviting pale amber color with a golden tinge around the edges and an aroma that is a pleasant mild blend of spice, citrus and malt, with charred wood undertones. On the palate, it is soft, buttery and well-rounded with sweet spices, a pleasant malt undertone, hints of toasted wood and vanilla. The creamy, smooth and gentle finish displays a host of long lasting complex flavors. If you are unfamiliar with Irish whiskey, you are in for a rare and exciting treat.
To accompany the release of their Irish Whisky, Concannon Vineyards has also released some of their latest vintages including the petite sirah, the same wine that was aged in oak barrels that were eventually sent over to Ireland to age the whiskey

Concannon Conservancy 2008 Petite Sirah ($18). Petite Sirah has always been a favorite variety at Concannon and were among the first of the California winemakers to introduce the variety to this country and for many years have continued to produce exceptional wines made from this often misused and misunderstood grape variety. This offering holds true to the wines of the past, a medium-full body, brilliant ruby color and a full fruit flavor that accents red berry and dark cherry flavor with the traditional peppery undertones. It is very smooth in the mouth with a nicely defined aftertaste. The wine will age exceptionally well with four or five years being the optimum. Try the Concannon Conservancy 2008 Petite Sirah with any of the popular highly spiced foods or red-sauced pastas and you will be amply rewarded.
Concannon Conservancy 2009 Cabernet Sauvignon ($18). This is a soft, sturdy, dry, medium bodied wine which is ready to drink now or can be cellared for further aging. This wine is intensely fruity. It has a strong cassis flavor with a background of green peppers and a eucalyptus and cinnamon under flavor. It is a wine that is made to accompany the red meats and is a standout with grilled steaks.
Concannon Conservancy 2008 Chardonnay ($15). Very much a true California chardonnay, this wine exhibits all of the apple and tropical fruit flavors and aromas that one comes to expect from a Concannon chardonnay. It is a wine that can accompany a broad spectrum of foods, but does an outstanding job of accompanying baked or poached sea food.
Concannon Conservancy 2009 Merlot ($18). Merlot has become one of the most popular red wines in the United States. This wine is a picture perfect California Merlot; big on flavor and aroma. The wines dark ruby color cradles a host of inviting flavors and aromas, including cherries, cedar plums and berries. The finish is exceptionally interesting as it is both long, fruity and with the added impression of chocolate in the background. Concannon Conservancy 2008 Merlot is a wine that will live in the memory long after it has been finished. 
